Add README content and other project files (#22)
bterlson/typespec-mcp: README.md

# TypeSpec MCP Server and Emitter

[![Install with NPX in VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code-Install_TypeSpec_MCP_Server-0098FF?style=flat-square&logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=white)](https://insiders.vscode.dev/redirect/mcp/install?name=TypeSpec%20MCP%20Server&config=%7B%22command%22%3A%22npx%22%2C%22args%22%3A%5B%22-y%22%2C%22mcp-server-typespec%40latest%22%5D%7D) [![Install with NPX in VS Code Insiders](https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code_Insiders-Install_TypeSpec_MCP_Server-24bfa5?style=flat-square&logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=white)](https://insiders.vscode.dev/redirect/mcp/install?name=TypeSpec%20MCP%20Server&config=%7B%22command%22%3A%22npx%22%2C%22args%22%3A%5B%22-y%22%2C%22mcp-server-typespec%40latest%22%5D%7D&quality=insiders)

> The TypeSpec MCP Server implements the [MCP specification](https://modelcontextprotocol.io) to enable you to quickly build out your own MCP extensions powered by [TypeSpec](https://typespec.io/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TypeSpec MCP Server implements the [MCP specification](https://modelcontextprotocol.io) to enable you to quickly build out your own MCP servers powered by [TypeSpec](https://typespec.io/).  We will also enable you to build REST APIs and other protocols supported by TypeSpec, though this is work in progress.
```

> Please note that this project is in Public Preview and implementation may significantly change prior to our General Availability.

## Overview

### What packages are in this repository?

Currently this repo contains the following packages:

- [mcp-server-typespec](https://github.com/bterlson/typespec-mcp/tree/main/packages/mcp-server-typespec) - an MCP server which assists in developing MCP extensions using TypeSpec.

> - [typespec-mcp](https://github.com/bterlson/typespec-mcp/tree/main/packages/typespec-mcp) - a TypeSpec library that provides a `tool` decorator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [typespec-mcp](https://github.com/bterlson/typespec-mcp/tree/main/packages/typespec-mcp) - a TypeSpec library for describing MCP servers, for example the `@tool` decorator.
```

- [typespec-mcp-server-js](https://github.com/bterlson/typespec-mcp/tree/main/packages/typespec-mcp-server-js) - A TypeSpec emitter that generates a server implementation in JavaScript for an MCP tool.
- [typespec-mcp-http-server-js](https://github.com/bterlson/typespec-mcp/tree/main/packages/typespec-mcp-http-server-js) - A TypeSpec emitter that generates a server implementation in JavaScript for calling a remote REST API.

## Currently Supported Tools

> The Azure MCP Server provides tools for interacting with the following Azure services:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The TypeSpec MCP Server provides the following tools:
```

- `learnTypeSpec` - Initializes the model with information about how to understand and write TypeSpec.
- `init` - Scaffolds out a new project in the current working directory with example tool implementation.
- `compile` - Runs tsp compile to generate emitter assets
- `build` - Executes `npm run build` in the current project.

## Getting Started

The TypeSpec MCP Server requires Node.js to install and run the server. If you don't have it installed, follow the instructions [here](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm).

### VS Code + GitHub Copilot

> The TypeSpec MCP Server provides assistance with authoring TypeSpec to generate MCP resource implementations. It can be used alone or with the [GitHub Copilot for Azure extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azure-github-copilot) in VS Code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The TypeSpec MCP Server provides assistance with authoring TypeSpec to generate MCP resource implementations. It can be used alone or with the [TypeSpec VS Code extension](https://typespec.io/docs/introduction/editor/vscode/) in VS Code.
```

### Prerequisites
1. Install either the stable or Insiders release of VS Code:
   * [Stable release](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
   * [Insiders release](https://code.visualstudio.com/insiders)
2. Install the [GitHub Copilot](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.copilot) and [GitHub Copilot Chat](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.copilot-chat) extensions

> 3. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) 22 or later

Reviewer 2: Personally I think we should support any maintained Node LTS which is 20+ while it is still maintained. What features do we use that is 22+ other than import.meta.dirname (which we can polyfill relatively easily)?

Author: agreed, will push an update
